New snapshot configs (#5817)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/snapshots.md

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot %}

{{
    config(
      unique_key='id',

>       schema='snapshots', // optional config. If not defined, the snapshot will use the `generate_schema_name` macro.

Reviewer: `schema` and `database` are the new configs that _use_ the `generate_schema_name` / `generate_database_name` macros like other dbt resources

`target_schema` and `target_database` are the old configs

>       schema='snapshots', // optional config. If not defined, the snapshot will use the `generate_schema_name` macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      schema='snapshots', 
```

>       database='analytics', // optional config. If not defined, the snapshot will use the `generate_database_name` macro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>       

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. You can change the `target_database` configuration, the `target_schema` configuration and the name of the snapshot (as defined in `{% snapshot .. %}`) will change how dbt names this table.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot %}

{{
    config(
      schema='snapshots',
      unique_key='id',
      strategy='timestamp',
      updated_at='updated_at',
    )
}}

select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}

{% endsnapshot %}
```

</File>

> 6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot)  &mdash; for our example, a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The `schema` config will utilize the `generate_schema_name` macro.

Reviewer: Should we link to this page for the `schema` config mention https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/schema

> 6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot)  &mdash; for our example, a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The `schema` config will utilize the `generate_schema_name` macro.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot)  &mdash; for our example, a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The [`schema`](/reference/resource-configs/schema) config will utilize the `generate_schema_name` macro.
```

> 6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The `database` and `schema` configs will utilize the `generate_database_name` and `generate_schema_name` macros, respectively.

Reviewer: Since we're calling out the `database` config, should we include it in the example above?

Reviewer: Alt. we can just call out the `schema` config

Author: Going with the latter idea!

> 6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The `database` and `schema` configs will utilize the `generate_database_name` and `generate_schema_name` macros, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot)  &mdash; for our example, a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. The `schema` config will utilize the `generate_schema_name` macro.
```

6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. You can change the `target_database` configuration, the `target_schema` configuration and the name of the snapshot (as defined in `{% snapshot .. %}`) will change how dbt names this table.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot %}

{{
    config(

>       database='analytics',

Author: ```suggestion
```

6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. You can change the `target_database` configuration, the `target_schema` configuration and the name of the snapshot (as defined in `{% snapshot .. %}`) will change how dbt names this table.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot %}

{{
    config(
      database='analytics',

>       schema='snapshots',

Author: Do we want to leave this in every example or remove them to stress that the fields are optional? Is leaving them undefined a best practice?

Reviewer: I think let's leave `schema` as "best practice", but I think we can remove `database`

      unique_key='id',

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      strategy='timestamp',
      updated_at='updated_at',
    )
}}

select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}

{% endsnapshot %}
```

</File>

> 6. Run the `dbt snapshot` [command](/reference/commands/snapshot) — for our example a new table will be created at `analytics.snapshots.orders_snapshot`. You can exclude the `database` and `schema` configs and the snapshot will utilize the `generate_database_name` and `generate_schema_name` macros, respectively

Reviewer: This is not quite right - see comment above:

> `schema` and `database` are the new configs that _use_ the `generate_schema_name` / `generate_database_name` macros like other dbt resources
> `target_schema` and `target_database` are the old configs

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot_timestamp.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot_timestamp %}

    {{
        config(

>           strategy='timestamp',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          schema='snapshots',
          strategy='timestamp',
```

Reviewer: just to be consistent with our best practice!

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot_check.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot_check %}

    {{
        config(

>           strategy='check',

Author: ```suggestion
          schema='snapshots',
          strategy='check',
```

>           unique_key='id',

Reviewer: thoughts on adding `schema='snapshots'` since that's our best practice?

Author: Done!

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot_hard_delete.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot_hard_delete %}

    {{
        config(

>           strategy='timestamp',

Reviewer: thoughts on adding `schema='snapshots'` since that's our best practice?

</File>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

<File name='snapshots/orders_snapshot_hard_delete.sql'>

```sql
{% snapshot orders_snapshot_hard_delete %}

    {{
        config(

>           strategy='timestamp',

Author: ```suggestion
          schema='snapshots',
          strategy='timestamp',
```

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |
| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |
| [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) | The database that dbt should render the snapshot table into | No | analytics |
| [schema](/reference/resource-configs/schema) | Specify a custom schema for the snapshots | No | snapshots |
| [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias)   | Specify an alias for the snapshot |       | No | your_custom_snapshot |
| [strategy](/reference/resource-configs/strategy) | The snapshot strategy to use. One of `timestamp` or `check` | Yes | timestamp |
| [unique_key](/reference/resource-configs/unique_key) | A <Term id="primary-key" /> column or expression for the record | Yes | id |
| [check_cols](/reference/resource-configs/check_cols) | If using the `check` strategy, then the columns to check | Only if using the `check` strategy | ["status"] |
| [updated_at](/reference/resource-configs/updated_at) | If using the `timestamp` strategy, the timestamp column to compare | Only if using the `timestamp` strategy | updated_at |

> | [invalidate_hard_deletes](/reference/resource-configs/invalidate_hard_deletes) | Find hard deleted records in source, and set `dbt_valid_to` current time if no longer exists | No | True |

Reviewer: since old configs (`target_schema` and `target_database`) aren't going away, maybe still worth calling them out in this table?

Reviewer: oh i see you called them out below!

> In versions prior to v1.9, the `target_schema` (required) and `target_database` (optional) configurations used the same schema or database across users and environments. In v1.9 enhancements were made and both were made optional fields. Snapshots, by default with no config defined, now resolve the schema or database using the `generate_schema_name` or `generate_database_name` macros. Developers can optionally define them with the [`schema`](/reference/resource-configs/schema) and [`database`](/reference/resource-configs/database) configs. Development and deployment environments can now use different schemas and databases to store snapshots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In versions prior to v1.9, the `target_schema` (required) and `target_database` (optional) configurations defined a single schema or database to build a snapshot into across users and environments. This created problems when testing or developing a snapshot, as there was no clear separation between development and production environments. In v1.9 support was added for environment-aware snapshots, by making `target_schema` optional. Snapshots, by default with no `target_schema` or `target_database` config defined, now resolve the schema or database to build the snapshot into using the `generate_schema_name` or `generate_database_name` macros. Developers can optionally define a custom location for snapshots to build to with the [`schema`](/reference/resource-configs/schema) and [`database`](/reference/resource-configs/database) configs, as is consistent with other resource types. 
```

Note: BigQuery users can use `target_project` and `target_dataset` as aliases for `target_database` and `target_schema`, respectively.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |
| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |

> | [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) | The database that dbt should render the snapshot table into | No | analytics |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) | Specify a custom database for the snapshot | No | analytics |
```

> | [schema](/reference/resource-configs/schema) | Specify a custom schema for the snapshots | No | snapshots |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [schema](/reference/resource-configs/schema) | Specify a custom schema for the snapshot | No | snapshots |
```

> | [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias)   | Specify an alias for the snapshot |       | No | your_custom_snapshot |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [alias](/reference/resource-configs/alias)   | Specify an alias for the snapshot | No | your_custom_snapshot |
```

> | [strategy](/reference/resource-configs/strategy) | The snapshot strategy to use. One of `timestamp` or `check` | Yes | timestamp |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [strategy](/reference/resource-configs/strategy) | The snapshot strategy to use. Valid values: `timestamp` or `check` | Yes | timestamp |
```

| [unique_key](/reference/resource-configs/unique_key) | A <Term id="primary-key" /> column or expression for the record | Yes | id |
| [check_cols](/reference/resource-configs/check_cols) | If using the `check` strategy, then the columns to check | Only if using the `check` strategy | ["status"] |
| [updated_at](/reference/resource-configs/updated_at) | If using the `timestamp` strategy, the timestamp column to compare | Only if using the `timestamp` strategy | updated_at |

> | [invalidate_hard_deletes](/reference/resource-configs/invalidate_hard_deletes) | Find hard deleted records in source, and set `dbt_valid_to` current time if no longer exists | No | True |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [invalidate_hard_deletes](/reference/resource-configs/invalidate_hard_deletes) | Find hard deleted records in source and set `dbt_valid_to` to current time if the record no longer exists | No | True |
```

> In versions prior to v1.9, the `target_schema` (required) and `target_database` (optional) configurations defined a single schema or database to build a snapshot into across users and environments. This created problems when testing or developing a snapshot, as there was no clear separation between development and production environments. In v1.9 support was added for environment-aware snapshots, by making `target_schema` optional. Snapshots, by default with no `target_schema` or `target_database` config defined, now resolve the schema or database to build the snapshot into using the `generate_schema_name` or `generate_database_name` macros. Developers can optionally define a custom location for snapshots to build to with the [`schema`](/reference/resource-configs/schema) and [`database`](/reference/resource-configs/database) configs, as is consistent with other resource types. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In versions prior to v1.9, the `target_schema` (required) and `target_database` (optional) configurations defined a single schema or database to build a snapshot into across users and environments. This created problems when testing or developing a snapshot, as there was no clear separation between development and production environments. In v1.9, support was added for environment-aware snapshots by making `target_schema` optional. Snapshots, by default with no `target_schema` or `target_database` config defined, now resolve the schema or database to build the snapshot into using the `generate_schema_name` or `generate_database_name` macros. Developers can optionally define a custom location for snapshots to build to with the [`schema`](/reference/resource-configs/schema) and [`database`](/reference/resource-configs/database) configs, as is consistent with other resource types. 
```

> A number of other configurations are also supported (e.g. `tags` and `post-hook`), check out the full list [here](/reference/snapshot-configs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A number of other configurations are also supported (for example, `tags` and `post-hook`). For the complete list, refer to [Snapshot configurations](/reference/snapshot-configs).
```

> Snapshots can be configured from both your `dbt_project.yml` file and a `config` block, check out the [configuration docs](/reference/snapshot-configs) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure snapshots from both the `dbt_project.yml` file and a `config` block. For more information, refer to the [configuration docs](/reference/snapshot-configs).
```

Note: BigQuery users can use `target_project` and `target_dataset` as aliases for `target_database` and `target_schema`, respectively.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |
| Config | Description | Required? | Example |
| ------ | ----------- | --------- | ------- |

> | [database] | The database that dbt should render the snapshot table into | No | analytics |

Author: Since the `target_database` and `target_schema` pages no longer apply, is there anything specific we want to link to here?

Reviewer: probably:
- https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/database
- https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/schema

> | [database] | The database that dbt should render the snapshot table into | No | analytics |

Reviewer: Not quite right - see https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/database

> | [schema] | The schema that dbt should render the snapshot table into | No | snapshots |

Reviewer: Not quite right - see https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/schema

> | [strategy](/reference/resource-configs/strategy) | The snapshot strategy to use. One of `timestamp` or `check` | Yes | timestamp |

Reviewer: Should we also include `alias`? https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/alias

`database`, `schema`, and `alias` are all "general configs"

Author: Good call! I'll add it

| [unique_key](/reference/resource-configs/unique_key) | A <Term id="primary-key" /> column or expression for the record | Yes | id |
| [check_cols](/reference/resource-configs/check_cols) | If using the `check` strategy, then the columns to check | Only if using the `check` strategy | ["status"] |
| [updated_at](/reference/resource-configs/updated_at) | If using the `timestamp` strategy, the timestamp column to compare | Only if using the `timestamp` strategy | updated_at |
| [invalidate_hard_deletes](/reference/resource-configs/invalidate_hard_deletes) | Find hard deleted records in source, and set `dbt_valid_to` current time if no longer exists | No | True |

> 

Reviewer: probably worth a callout somewhere on how new configs (`schema` & `database`) differ from old (`target_schema`, `target_database`)

#### Ensure your unique key is really unique
The unique key is used by dbt to match rows up, so it's extremely important to make sure this key is actually unique! If you're snapshotting a source, I'd recommend adding a uniqueness test to your source ([example](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop/blob/8e7c853c858018180bef1756ec93e193d9958c5b/models/staging/schema.yml#L26)).

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">

#### Use a `target_schema` that is separate to your analytics schema
Snapshots cannot be rebuilt. As such, it's a good idea to put snapshots in a separate schema so end users know they are special. From there, you may want to set different privileges on your snapshots compared to your models, and even run them as a different user (or role, depending on your warehouse) to make it very difficult to drop a snapshot unless you really want to.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

#### Use a schema that is separate to your analytics schema

> Snapshots cannot be rebuilt. As such, it's a good idea to put snapshots in a separate schema so end users know they are special. From there, you may want to set different privileges on your snapshots compared to your models, and even run them as a different user (or role, depending on your warehouse) to make it very difficult to drop a snapshot unless you really want to.

Author: Based on what I've read, this is still the suggested practice - do we want to expand on this or is the text fine as-is?

Reviewer: This is still best practice! Not sure about the "to your analytics schema" wording... maybe something like "Use a schema that is separate to your models' schema(s)"

#### Ensure your unique key is really unique
The unique key is used by dbt to match rows up, so it's extremely important to make sure this key is actually unique! If you're snapshotting a source, I'd recommend adding a uniqueness test to your source ([example](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop/blob/8e7c853c858018180bef1756ec93e193d9958c5b/models/staging/schema.yml#L26)).

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">

#### Use a `target_schema` that is separate to your analytics schema
Snapshots cannot be rebuilt. As such, it's a good idea to put snapshots in a separate schema so end users know they are special. From there, you may want to set different privileges on your snapshots compared to your models, and even run them as a different user (or role, depending on your warehouse) to make it very difficult to drop a snapshot unless you really want to.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> #### Use a schema that is separate to your models schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Use a schema that is separate to your models' schema
```

> Snapshots cannot be rebuilt. As such, it's a good idea to put snapshots in a separate schema so end users know they are special. From there, you may want to set different privileges on your snapshots compared to your models, and even run them as a different user (or role, depending on your warehouse) to make it very difficult to drop a snapshot unless you really want to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snapshots can't be rebuilt. Because of this, it's a good idea to put snapshots in a separate schema so end users know they're special. From there, you may want to set different privileges on your snapshots compared to your models, and even run them as a different user (or role, depending on your warehouse) to make it very difficult to drop a snapshot unless you really want to.
```
